And with that, we have an opportunity to
kinda break and have a quick discussion.
So any thoughts or
questions on this initially?
>> In my experience,
that anatomy is an ideal-
>> That's right.
>> Use case, right?
>> Yeah.
>> However, I've never worked on a design
system that had the opportunity to
really properly layer and
build upon that core.
>> Yeah.
>> What are your thoughts regarding that?
For example, we're still working
on figuring out a tokens
processing strategy,
which is clearly foundational.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you continue to build up when
the foundation is finished?
>> Yes, this is such a good question.
I feel like design system work
is notorious for this, right?
It's like we're trying to
change the oil in our car while
we're driving it down the road.
[LAUGH] It just feels
like you can never stop.
And this partly is because I think
the organization is never associating,
the design system is too far
away from revenue, right?
It's too far away from the money to say
we have to stop, get this right, and
then start it up again.
That's, no company will do that.
You can't stop work on the products,
right?
So, I'm a big fan, we're gonna talk
a little bit more in depth when we get
into stage one deep dive, but I'm a big
fan of this concept that I just call,
in design system work,
just the refactoring build.
So, instead of you thinking, in fact,
if that's something I should change with
the way these slides are laid out, because
I'm not telling you start with foundations
and build each layer perfectly,
that's just not realistic.
I am trying to show you kind of the ideal.
In practice what this looks like is we do
the work to understand who is important
for us to serve right away out of
the gate cuz we want influential folks.
So I'm gonna talk about
how to find those people.
And then we want to think about what's
gonna solve the biggest problem for
them right away.
And we want to do something
meaningful out of the gate if we can.
So we're starting with a fairly complex
piece of something in your system,
usually a bigger component.
And what we'll do is we'll talk
a little bit more about discovering
that right first piece.
But from there, it's really about
refactoring that into something, because
those pieces that you may see that are out
in products already, they're great.
They may be well-built, but they're
probably not built in a systematic way for
all the other products to consume.
So that's the refactoring process, and
that's where then slowly you're putting
these little pieces and parts in,
and it's a constant refactoring.
That's just the only way
that I know to do it.
So you're never building it perfectly.
[LAUGH] It will never be perfect.
But I like to think in the ideal because I
feel like we have to have something we're
reaching towards, right?
And that gives us a really good
decision-making, sort of filter.
It's like okay, if I'm gonna make this
choice, I have to understand the debt this
is gonna give me,
the technical debt or creative debt.
And know this has to be a part of my
backlog later to come back and refactor.
So that's kind of the only way
we are able to do the work.
Does that address your question, okay.
Awesome, thanks.
What's up Mark?
>> In an enterprise team
building a new design system,
what are the biggest mistakes
we should try to be avoiding?
>> Yeah, I mean, I'm definitely
gonna talk a lot about that.
If I was gonna pick one, well,
there's sort of two, and
we'll get into this when we talk about
origin stories, is you can't rely too much
on direction from leadership or too much
on direction from individual contributors.
You have to find a balance, you have
to have support from your executives.
But if that's all you do, you're not
gonna build something that's valuable for
your subscribers.
So then you need to balance that
with input from subscribers,
the folks who are building
products every day, right?
That's how you determine what's valuable,
and
it's a constant balance
of those two things.
So I think the biggest mistake I see
folks do is if they're top-down,
which we'll get into, they get a budget
from a boss, and they're kind of beholden
to that boss to do what that boss
thinks they should be doing.
And that's one big mistake,
they're gonna have struggle.
They're gonna struggle with
adoption until they change that.
I guarantee it, I've seen it 1000 times.
The other side of that is,
it's the grassroots model where all I do
is build something that's valuable to me.
And I'm not branching out and thinking
about all the other disciplines that
are also doing this work and reaching
out to stakeholders to get long term
investments so this thing can
actually last and have a real impact.
So those two things are probably the most
common in the early days that I see.
That's more of a perspective than
it is like a coding error, right?
[LAUGH] Other questions?
>> Just another comment,
the cost of miscommunication is incredibly
under-observed, I'm excited to
hear more about that discussed.
>> Yeah, it's unbelievable.
I mean, I can't tell you how many times
I have come out of those meetings
just feeling so frustrated that
we misunderstood each other.
And I hate that, especially
because I'm a bit of an idealist,
as you can tell already, right?
That's this whole day is
gonna be about the ideal.
But this work has so much potential to
create unity inside of our organizations.
That's what I really love about it, right?
We're putting everybody on the same team
instead of seeing designers and developers
competing or IT and communications or
however you're structured, right?
I've been in those meetings where
the air is so thick you could cut it,
I mean it's tense, right?
And that's not how it should be,
we're all trying to serve our clients,
we should be doing that
well with each other.
And I feel like you can kind of
unify around building an internal
thing that really does help
you do that better together.
That's what I love about systems.
So that is, I think,
the most powerful thing.
I think you had a question?
>> Yeah.
>> Have you ever worked with teams who
say they know they don't prioritize
a homegrown design system, so
they're using something like,
say, material design as their baseline.
And what are the big tips you
would give for that approach?
>> Yeah, I've helped a lot of
organizations make a decision in that
direction.
And usually, so we're gonna have a whole
section at the very end on culture, and
I think actually,
that's probably the most relevant.
That's the most common factor that I can
see in terms of why an organization might
choose to use something like material.
I have nothing against material,
I think it's brilliant.
I just think in some cases,
it's probably not gonna serve
every need you have, right?
So the more mature the systems get that
have chosen to start with something like
that, the more friction they feel with it.
So it usually works really well early on,
and it helps them make really rapid
progress in those early stages,
but there's always a moment where
they realize it's just not gonna do
what they need it to do for their brand.
And so that's where the bigger
refactor kinda comes in.
It's technical debt that you're assuming,
and you know you'll have to pay for
that at some point in the future.
Now I don't wanna misspeak, right?
I'm sure there are design systems
out there that are using it well and
feel like it's everything they need, but
culturally, this is where it comes in.
It's kinda like what's
important to the organization?
If it's speed, if it's competitiveness,
then probably doing something like that
just to be fast and quick to market
is probably maybe a good choice.
But if it's about collaboration,
if it's about our team, so
we'll walk through the different types
of cultures, that's a different model.
And those teams are the ones that probably
will struggle using something that's like
a third party out-of-the-box thing.
>> Do you see differences in approaches,
say, for a B2B app versus a B2C app?
>> I've tried to look for that, and
I haven't really seen a lot of that in
terms of the design system approach.
So, I wish I had that data for you,
but I really just don't, I mean,
we're building interfaces.
So a lot of times, whether it's
individuals that a company using it or
individual consumers using it
is just not that different.
So I haven't seen a lot of that.